# Conference Organization App

## Description

A cloud-based API server to support a provided conference organization application that exists on the web. The API supports the following functionality found within the app: user authentication, user profiles, conference information and various manners in which to query the data.

## Improvements

### Task 1: Add Sessions to a Conference

In order to create a session, I first implemented a `Session` and `SessionForm` class. 

To allow strong consistent queries, I went for a parent-child implementation for the one `Conference` to many `Sessions` relationship. Sessions are then queried by their conference ancestor, which has a drawback when trying to move sessions between conferences. But, I opted for it because I think the trade-off in consistency is worthwhile. 

For the `Speaker` design, I decided to implement a full fledged entity following the standards for the rest of the classes. 

The following endpoints where added: 

- `getConferenceSessions(websafeConferenceKey)`: Given a conference, return all sessions.
- `getConferenceSessionByType(websafeConferenceKey, typeOfSession)`: Given a conference, return all sessions of a specified type (eg. lecture, keynote, workshop)
- `getSessionBySpeaker`: Given a speaker, return all sessions given by this particular speaker, across all conferences.
- `createSession(SessionForm, websafeConferenceKey)` - Create a session, open only to the organizer of the conference.

### Task 2: Add Sessions to User Wishlist

A user wishlist was added by creating a key property field for the `Profile` entity, `sessionsToAttend`. 

The following endpoints were defined:

- `addSessionToWishlist(SessionKey)`: adds the session to the user's list of sessions they are interested in attending. You can decide if they can only add conferences they have registered to attend or if the wishlist is open to all conferences.
- `getSessionsInWishlist()`: query for all the sessions in a conference that the user is interested in.

### Task 3: Work on Indexes and Queries

I implemented two more queries that I thought would be useful:

- `getConferenceByCurrentMonth`: returns all the conferences ocurring on the current month when the user requested the query. 
- `getTimeUndefinedSessions`: returns all the sessions thare are missing either the `duration` or `startTime` properties. This will help the organizers to define their schedule. I find this important because many times, the organizers will know who will come to a specific session, but maybe have not defined the time and duration of the former. 

The indexes required to support the type of queries by the new endpoints were automatically generated by running the application in localhost, executing the queries, and then deploying to appspot. 





## Products
- [App Engine][1]

## Language
- [Python][2]

## APIs
- [Google Cloud Endpoints][3]

## Setup Instructions
1. Update the value of `application` in `app.yaml` to the app ID you
   have registered in the App Engine admin console and would like to use to host
   your instance of this sample.
1. Update the values at the top of `settings.py` to
   reflect the respective client IDs you have registered in the
   [Developer Console][4].
1. Update the value of CLIENT_ID in `static/js/app.js` to the Web client ID
1. (Optional) Mark the configuration files as unchanged as follows:
   `$ git update-index --assume-unchanged app.yaml settings.py static/js/app.js`
1. Run the app with the devserver using `dev_appserver.py DIR`, and ensure it's running by visiting
   your local server's address (by default [localhost:8080][5].)
1. Generate your client library(ies) with [the endpoints tool][6].
1. Deploy your application.


[1]: https://developers.google.com/appengine
[2]: http://python.org
[3]: https://developers.google.com/appengine/docs/python/endpoints/
[4]: https://console.developers.google.com/
[5]: https://localhost:8080/
[6]: https://developers.google.com/appengine/docs/python/endpoints/endpoints_tool
